- [Instructor] Let's work through a few code examples
to get more familiar with the methods on a map.
To help us with that,
we'll build a HashMap that tracks which room
the guests at the London Hotel are staying in.
So we'll start out by creating a map
that uses a room as its key
and stores guests as its values.
I'm going to name this map assignments
and then I'll use a HashMap implementation for my map.
Okay, so now we have the map.
Let's go ahead and add the guests into their rooms.
So first I'm going to place Maria in Oxford
by passing in Oxford as the key
and then Maria as the value.
Okay, then we can put John in his room.
It's going to be Piccadilly,
so we'll go ahead and use the put method
to associate John with Piccadilly.
Now at this point,
let's retrieve some of the values in the map
and print them to the console.
So I'll use the print stream
and then I'll just say we're getting
the guest from Piccadilly.
And here we can use the map to retrieve the guest
in that room by passing in the key to the get method.
So we'll pass in Piccadilly
and that should get us John.
Now let's do this again for Oxford,
but I'm going to do this a little bit differently.
Instead of using the exact object instance as my key
that I'm passing into the get method,
I'm going to create
a new logically-equivalent instance of Oxford.
So I'll use the new operator in the constructor,
pass in the name Oxford.
It's a suite that holds five people
and costs $225 a night.
Okay, so we're retrieving two values from our map
using rooms as the key.
In one instance we're using the exact same object instance
and in another we're using
a logically-equivalent object instance.
Let's go ahead and execute this
and you'll notice that our console output
indicates that Maria is staying in Oxford
and John is staying in Piccadilly, so that's correct.
Now let's take a look at what happens
when you don't override hashcode and equals properly.
So in this example,
it's the exact same code except for one thing.
I'm using a different object as the key of the map
and this object does not override
the hashcode and equals methods properly.
Watch what happens when I execute this code.
You'll notice that we're unable to retrieve
the value in the map associated with Oxford
and that's because we've broken how the map works
by not overriding hashcode and equals.
Okay, let's finish up with one more example.
Imagine that Maria and John would like to switch rooms.
Let's see how we can do that.
So I'm going to create a new variable guest
and then I'm going to use our map
and the put method.
So first I'm going to put Maria
into John's room, Piccadilly.
Now I'm not just going to pass Maria in as the value
that we would like to associate with Piccadilly.
What I'm going to do is use the remove method
and then I'll pass in Maria's room
as the key which is Oxford.
Okay, let's talk a little bit about what this does.
First, we're going to remove Maria from her room
and you'll recall that the remove method
will return the value with the associated key
we pass into the method.
So this is going to place Maria into Piccadilly.
Now you'll also recall that the put method
will return the value
previously stored within the map entry,
so that's going to assign John into our guest variable.
Now let's go ahead
and we can place John into Maria's room.
Now to do that,
I'm going to use the putIfAbsent method
just to make sure that Maria's out of her room.
You'll recall that this method will not overwrite the entry
in the map if it already exists.
Okay, now to build the association,
we pass in Maria's room which was Oxford.
And then as our second argument,
we pass in John who's assigned to the guest variable.
All right, let me go ahead.
We'll save our code and we'll execute it.
And there you can see that John is now staying in Oxford
and Maria's staying in Piccadilly.
We successfully completed our switch.
So that's a look at several of the methods
that insert, update, remove,
and retrieve objects from a map.